Hi everybody and welcome back.
Now previously we worked a list called Birthday months where we store them on our friends and families
birthdays the Munsen this list can and did appear in any order.
So let's just take a normal list of birthday months.
But before we do that let's add in some comments.
So today's date
24th of October 2016 followed by the author which is me and it's going leave it or the name is going
to write in is daunting because I know who I am.
Followed by the program name.
This is organizing a list.
OK.
Perfect.
Now so let's just create a list and let's start off the comment again creating a list of months.
And let's now do that.
So a birthday month equals that's open and close or square brackets.
Let's start in close with a single quote and let's go.
May come up opening closing single quote November and that's adding one more which can be.
June Judis as you can see are in complete random order.
So let's have a look.
So how can we go about sorting these now using some of pipings methods.
Well Peyton sort method makes it pretty simple to sort a list.
So what we can do is we can take our list which has birthday months and we can apply the sort method.
So does sort then we can print it out.
Print birthday months and let's print that.
So that's sort of them alphabetically.
You can also sort a list in reverse alphabetical order by passing the argument reverse equals truth
to the sort method.
So let's see how we do that.
And it's out in a comment using the reverse sort method and how do we do that.
Well we take our bird months so let's just take this list here copied and pasted.
There we go.
Birthday months and let's go.
Birthday month sort of that sort of reverse equals true with a capital T.
Now let's print out a month's print birthday months.
Okay perfect.
So you can see our first list here has all of them alphabetically and you can see our next list has
reversed that so reverse alphabetical order.
Perfect.
So a good start.
So two ways to sort lists right there.
Now any time we use either of these methods to sort of to sort reverse our list are permanently altered.
So that means we can no longer but go back to the original format of the list or the original order
of the list.
But you can temporarily sort of list using the sorted method s.o. or TPD.
So how do we use that.
Well let's create a new list now so we can see.
So we'll use Berty months again and paste it in.
And then what we will say is print sorted
birthday months OK and let's run up up next there we go the list is sorted alphabetically as it was
in our very first example.
But in the first example that list is now permanently sorted in our nesting.
In this example it's only temporarily sorted.
So let's see if we print it again.
Print birthday months.
There you go.
You can see now that the list has reversed has reverted to its original order.
So when you want to apparently order a list use a sort for.
Use the sort methods and when you want to temporarily organize a list use the sorted method.
Now one final way to sort a list is in reverse.
So what is reverse.
Because we've seen alphabetical and we've seen reverse alphabetical.
Well reverse is exactly that.
It's the list exactly in reverse order.
So let's see how we can do that actually for this.
Let's create a new list.
So let's have birthday days equals opening closing square brackets open closing single quote.
So let's go Monday
Tuesday
Wednesday.
Thursday and Friday.
OK.
So that's the days of the week obviously in perfect order.
Now let's reverse them.
So birthday months sorry birthdays that reverse and print birthday days and let's have a look at what
we get.
Perfect Friday Thursday Wednesday Tuesday Monday so our list exactly in reverse order so I hope you
found that helpful as you can see.
There are several ways to easily and quickly organize a list in Python and I'll come back to this in
future lectures.
Thanks for listening.
I look forward to seeing you in the next lecture.